board-election-2023/Candidates.md, before:

# Candidate introductions

Candidates for the [2023 Tauri Board elections](README.md).

## Robin van Boven

<img alt="Robin avatar" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/497556?v=4&s=200" width="100" />

<!-- Opening -->

Hallo! I'm Robin van Boven (@Beanow), a software engineer based in the Netherlands. Currently I'm a Tauri Board Director, employed by CrabNebula, and would love to continue for another term as a Board Director.

<!-- History with / relevance for Tauri -->

About 2½ years ago I helped with establishing the [Tauri Programme][statutes] and joined as a Board Director. Some of the areas I worked on during this term are:

- Created processes and templates for the Board, to follow regulations more easily.
- Made sure we have multiple admins on important services (reducing our [bus factor] risk).
- Proposed and co-authored the ["Domains and Teams" governance model][governance].

<!-- What you bring to the table -->

My strengths and what I would bring to the Board are:

- Passionate about the fairness, openness and resilience of Tauri.
- Regular time dedicated to _doing work_ for the Board.
- A critical opinion based on experience in open source and software teams.

<!-- Future for Tauri; What you're interested in realizing next term. -->

I believe my skills are best used to strengthen what we do internally. Improving the foundations for other contributors to rely on. Some areas I would work on if elected for another term:

- Investing in the new governance model, making sure we use it effectively.
- A campaign to improve transparancy on all fronts, including a much more visible Board.
- Make it significantly easier for the Working Group to submit proposals to the Board.

A strong internal focus for me personally. Of course there is more to discuss, so I'd be happy to keep sharing my opinions and support other initiatives.

[statutes]: https://dracc.commonsconservancy.org/0035/ "Statutes of Tauri"
[bus factor]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bus_factor "Bus factor - Wikipedia"
[governance]: https://tauri.app/about/governance "Tauri Governance"

Commit message:

election: Introduction tips for applicants

board-election-2023/Candidates.md, after:

# Candidate introductions

Candidates for the [2023 Tauri Board elections](README.md).

### Applying?

If you're applying as a candidate, we'd love to share your introduction with the voting Working Group members. You're welcome to use the existing introductions as reference. There is no mandatory format, so feel free to write in your own style!

That said, here are some points of attention:

- The document will be public.
- Integrity and transparancy are important. Consider using your real name and to mention any relevant interests (ex: contracts or employment).
- Not everyone in the Working Group may be aware of what you do. It's worth highlighting even if you've been part of the community.

## Robin van Boven

<img alt="Robin avatar" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/497556?v=4&s=200" width="100" />

<!-- Opening -->

Hallo! I'm Robin van Boven (@Beanow), a software engineer based in the Netherlands. Currently I'm a Tauri Board Director, employed by CrabNebula, and would love to continue for another term as a Board Director.

<!-- History with / relevance for Tauri -->

About 2½ years ago I helped with establishing the [Tauri Programme][statutes] and joined as a Board Director. Some of the areas I worked on during this term are:

- Created processes and templates for the Board, to follow regulations more easily.
- Made sure we have multiple admins on important services (reducing our [bus factor] risk).
- Proposed and co-authored the ["Domains and Teams" governance model][governance].

<!-- What you bring to the table -->

My strengths and what I would bring to the Board are:

- Passionate about the fairness, openness and resilience of Tauri.
- Regular time dedicated to _doing work_ for the Board.
- A critical opinion based on experience in open source and software teams.

<!-- Future for Tauri; What you're interested in realizing next term. -->

I believe my skills are best used to strengthen what we do internally. Improving the foundations for other contributors to rely on. Some areas I would work on if elected for another term:

- Investing in the new governance model, making sure we use it effectively.
- A campaign to improve transparancy on all fronts, including a much more visible Board.
- Make it significantly easier for the Working Group to submit proposals to the Board.

A strong internal focus for me personally. Of course there is more to discuss, so I'd be happy to keep sharing my opinions and support other initiatives.

[statutes]: https://dracc.commonsconservancy.org/0035/ "Statutes of Tauri"
[bus factor]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bus_factor "Bus factor - Wikipedia"
[governance]: https://tauri.app/about/governance "Tauri Governance"
