board-election-2023/README.md, before:

# Tauri Board Election 2023

<!-- Summary -->

The Tauri Board is the central decision making body for the Tauri Programme and is responsible for the overall health and stability of the Tauri Programme. It consists of up to 7 elected Board Directors.
This year is the first election where we **invite Working Group members** to cast their vote on which candidates they prefer. This document provides more information to help you orient.

**Places you can reach out: [Discussion #31][discussion-31] | [`#general-wg`][discord-general-wg]**

## Dates

Candidate applications: until July 2nd, 2023<br>
Voting dates: July 5th through July 12th, 2023<br>
Results: on or before July 16, 2023

## Candidates

- [David Lemarier][david-lemarier] - _Candidate for a second term._
- [Bill Avery][bill-avery] - _New Candidate._
- [Jacob Bolda][jacob-bolda] - _Candidate for a second term._
- [Zack Chapple][zack-chapple] - _New Candidate._
- [Robin van Boven][robin-van-boven] - _Candidate for a second term._

[david-lemarier]: Candidates.md#david-lemarier "Candidates.md - David Lemarier"
[bill-avery]: Candidates.md#bill-avery "Candidates.md - Bill Avery"
[jacob-bolda]: Candidates.md#jacob-bolda "Candidates.md - Jacob Bolda"
[zack-chapple]: Candidates.md#zack-chapple "Candidates.md - Zack Chapple"
[robin-van-boven]: Candidates.md#robin-van-boven "Candidates.md - Robin van Boven"

## More information

_We're hoping to provide clear and complete information. If you have any questions after reading this section, don't hesitate to ask!_

### Available positions

Currently all 7 Director positions are filled. For 5 Directors their term ends this July.
This election determines who is appointed those 5 seats for the next 2 years (a full term).

### Will all seats be filled?

The minimum is 3 Directors. So not all 5 seats have to be filled. Only when there are enough candidates and _at least half_ of the voters indicate they're _for_ appointing a candidate, would a seat be filled.

In other words candidates will not be appointed "by default" to fill as many seats as possible. Only when they have the confidence of voters.

### How does voting work?

Voters can indicate two things with their vote. For every candidate, whether they're for or against that candidate becoming a Board Director. And between the candidates they are for, listing those candidates in order of preference.

Each candidate needs to meet a "confidence threshold", meaning at least 50% of voters have voted _for_ that candidate. If there are more candidates that meet this threshold than seats, a [scoring system] is used to find the candidates that _got the greatest preference_.

### Can someone run for multiple terms?

As per [Tauri's statutes][statutes-governance]:

> Directors are permitted to seek office for multiple terms, however, when running against other candidates the amount of terms they have consecutively served is deducted from the votes cast in their favour. This provides a balance between continuity, equal opportunities and renewal of qualities and competences.

### Reviewing the election

This voting process is new for Tauri. It was the initiative of the current Board to enable the Working Group to vote, realizing there was little time to prepare. So after the election we would like to review whether the election was executed well enough and validate the results.

We're still looking for people who want to join this committee:
https://github.com/tauri-apps/governance-and-guidance/issues/24

[discussion-31]: https://github.com/tauri-apps/governance-and-guidance/discussions/31
[discord-general-wg]: https://discord.com/channels/616186924390023171/631158878108909588
[scoring system]: https://github.com/tauri-apps/governance-and-guidance/issues/14
[statutes-governance]: https://dracc.commonsconservancy.org/0035/#governance "Statutes of Tauri - Governance"

Commit message:

Revise voting information with 5 candidates in mind.

board-election-2023/README.md, after:

# Tauri Board Election 2023

<!-- Summary -->

The Tauri Board is the central decision making body for the Tauri Programme and is responsible for the overall health and stability of the Tauri Programme. It consists of up to 7 elected Board Directors.
This year is the first election where we **invite Working Group members** to cast their vote on which candidates they prefer. This document provides more information to help you orient.

**Places you can reach out: [Discussion #31][discussion-31] | [`#general-wg`][discord-general-wg]**

## Dates

Candidate applications: until July 2nd, 2023<br>
Voting dates: July 5th through July 12th, 2023<br>
Results: on or before July 16, 2023

## Candidates

- [David Lemarier][david-lemarier] - _Candidate for a second term._
- [Bill Avery][bill-avery] - _New Candidate._
- [Jacob Bolda][jacob-bolda] - _Candidate for a second term._
- [Zack Chapple][zack-chapple] - _New Candidate._
- [Robin van Boven][robin-van-boven] - _Candidate for a second term._

[david-lemarier]: Candidates.md#david-lemarier "Candidates.md - David Lemarier"
[bill-avery]: Candidates.md#bill-avery "Candidates.md - Bill Avery"
[jacob-bolda]: Candidates.md#jacob-bolda "Candidates.md - Jacob Bolda"
[zack-chapple]: Candidates.md#zack-chapple "Candidates.md - Zack Chapple"
[robin-van-boven]: Candidates.md#robin-van-boven "Candidates.md - Robin van Boven"

## More information

_We're hoping to provide clear and complete information. If you have any questions after reading this section, don't hesitate to ask!_

### Available positions

Currently all 7 Director positions are filled. For 5 Directors their term ends this July.
This election determines who is appointed those 5 seats for the next 2 years (a full term).

### Will all seats be filled?

The minimum is 3 Directors total. So not all 5 seats have to be filled. Only when _at least half_ of the voters indicate they're _for_ appointing a candidate, would a seat be filled.

In other words candidates will not be appointed "by default" to fill as many seats as possible. Only when they have the confidence of voters.

### How does voting work?

In this election we have 5 seats available and 5 candidates. For each candidate voters indicate whether they're for or against them becoming a Board Director. Each candidate needs to meet a "confidence threshold", meaning at least (`>=`) 50% of voters have voted _"Yes"_ for that candidate.

You can use the voting tool that lets you drag and drop candidates to create your vote.
To submit your vote, it generates an email for you to send with a human and machine readable format. When the voting period ends, those votes counted and compiled into a result.

### Can someone run for multiple terms?

As per [Tauri's statutes][statutes-governance]:

> Directors are permitted to seek office for multiple terms, however, when running against other candidates the amount of terms they have consecutively served is deducted from the votes cast in their favour. This provides a balance between continuity, equal opportunities and renewal of qualities and competences.

### What about order of preference?

This year the election happens to have 5 seats and 5 candidates. So only confidence needs to be considered.

You may have encountered technical discussions talking about ordering by preference and using this to select the most preferred candidates. That aspect of the voting system is intended to handle a situation where there are _more candidates than seats_. Because we know that is not the case for this election, sorting by preference becomes unnecessary.

### Reviewing the election

This voting process is new for Tauri. It was the initiative of the current Board to enable the Working Group to vote, realizing there was little time to prepare. So after the election we would like to review whether the election was executed well enough and validate the results.

We're still looking for people who want to join this committee:
https://github.com/tauri-apps/governance-and-guidance/issues/24

[discussion-31]: https://github.com/tauri-apps/governance-and-guidance/discussions/31
[discord-general-wg]: https://discord.com/channels/616186924390023171/631158878108909588
[scoring system]: https://github.com/tauri-apps/governance-and-guidance/issues/14
[statutes-governance]: https://dracc.commonsconservancy.org/0035/#governance "Statutes of Tauri - Governance"
